[Autogenerated] we've already got the infrastructure set up for
our application and there's not really much that CloudFormation
can add to those existing resources.
So instead I thought we'd basically recreate the existing
infrastructure with cloudformation view the app working 100% and
then delete the stack I've created and included a CloudFormation
template in the class exercise files.
This template is based on the Pizza Lovers infrastructure
we've created so far in this course,
let's take a look at it before we use it to create a
stack in the CloudFormation folder, opened the Pizza dot template file.
Now this YAML document is over 500 lines long so there is
no way I can go over the whole thing.
I thought I'd just call out some highlights so you can better understand how
these templates work inside the resources section are properties that
represent different resources that will be provisioned.
Each resource has a type that will tell you what it is,
like how this is the VPc to create the property section
defines resource specific properties that will be configured
for the resource in this VPc resource,
you can see it setting the cider block and even giving it the name.
Pizza Vpc CloudFormation if we want to change any of these properties,
we just update the value for that property.
Now, if you scroll down to line 1 13,
you can see that here's an auto scaling group that's being
provisioned many of the properties for this resource are actually
referencing other resource values in this document.
Each property in this confirmation template is interesting
but I just want to show you one last thing.
If you go to the very end of the file,
We're actually creating security group rules.
These are individual resources for each ingress or egress rule with
CloudFormation you can create almost anything in a W S that you want.
Now let's create a stack.
Go to the CloudFormation dashboard in the AWS management console,
we'll go through the stack creation wizard.
So click the create stack button here.
You can choose whether to use a pre created template,
a sample template or the designer to create your stack.
We already have our template.
So leave template is ready, selected next,
select the uploaded template file and then click the choose file button.
Look in the CloudFormation folder in the Pizza Lovers code
and select the pizza dot template file.
Now, click next let's name the stack.
Pizza stack now in the parameter section you can see that
there are some fields we need to fill.
These are parameters that are defined in our template.
We need an am I I D for our ec two instances and also
the key pair to set them up with.
You can see that the key pair is already filled in because
I put a default value in the template.
You can change it if you need to but likely if you've
been following along this course.
Pizza keys is perfect for the am I.
We need to go fetch that open the ec.
Two dashboard in a new tab, click the Emmys menu option on the left,
select the Pizza Plus S3 image and then copy the AM I I D.
Then back in the CloudFormation screen,
enter the AmI ID into the image ID input field.
Now you can click next in this screen are more
optional configuration selections,
we won't be using any of these so just scroll down and click next.
Then we have a review screen scroll to the bottom and select the
check box saying that you acknowledge I am.
Resources will be created.
This is necessary because the template is creating things like roles
and policies in I am now click create stack Stacks.
Do take some time to provision all the resources and I've found
this pizza lovers stack can take as long as 15 minutes until the
load balancer is responding to requests.
In the meantime you can use this CloudFormation dashboard to view progress,
select the stack we just created and select the events tab.
This shows you any events that have occurred on the stack.
You can see there are a lot of creatine progress and create complete
events logged for various provisioned resources,
You can refresh the list as well to see updated information on each event.
I'm going to skip ahead the video here so we can test out our stack,
you can see here that the stack is now showing create complete
which means all resources have been created,
our application does take a little extra time to finish booting up but I've
waited about 15 minutes so it should be live now go to the ec two console
and select load balancers in the left menu,
find the load balancer that is not called Pizza loader,
it should have a name that looks a little bit random,
this is the load balancer created by CloudFormation click on the description tag
and copy the DNS name Paces into a new tab and then hit go.
Pizza Lovers should appear and everything should be fully functional now,
CloudFormation was used to spend up all of this architecture but let's
see how easy it makes it to get rid of it as well.
Go back to the CloudFormation list,
select Pizza stack and then click the delete button in the modal,
confirm the deletion by clicking the delete stack button.
CloudFormation will go through every resource that it created and deleted,
leaving no trace that it ever existed with CloudFormation were able
to easily recreate infrastructure to power our web applications
with static CloudFormation templates.
You can avoid human error and safely store and record changes to your infrastructure in version control